Welcome back.
So this video represents a pretty big milestone in this class.
We're moving from purely front end technologies to our first taste of back and web development.
So we're going to continue using everything that we've learned.
It's G-mail CSSA javascript but we're going to learn some new technologies that help us make full web
applications.
Of course before we start writing some code we have a few other things we need to take care of.
We'll start by reviewing how the Internet works.
Then we're going to talk about static vs. dynamic sites and where front end fits and where back and
fits in and mostly We'll talk more in depth about the specific back and technologies that we're going
to work with.
OK so let's start with the 60 second version of how the Internet works.
When we go to a Euro here to me dot com slash courses there's a few things that happen behind the scenes
.
The first thing is that our computer needs to figure out what IP address to send a request to.
So it takes us you R-OH you to read out come in it gets the correct IP address which is the unique locator
for you and me server.
Then once we have that IP address and New Age TTP request is sent.
So a request is sent to that IP address and it's not just a blank request.
It has a bunch of information.
We'll talk more about the specific details that are in that request in the next video.
But the short version is that it has things like your own IP Address the time that you're sending it
at that type of request.
And most importantly the specific page that you're asking for.
So in this case we're asking for the course's page.
So that is encoded in the request that is sent next to me gets that request and it figures out what
to do.
And then it responds with something.
So if we're asking for Slash courses the Tomy server will figure out what needs to go on the course
page.
So I would assume that it goes into a database and grabs a bunch of courses and images compiles them
into this one long HTL file with some success and some javascript and then it's finally sent back to
me to my computer has HTP response and then it gets to a browser whose job is to render the page.
So this is what the actual content looks like before our browser takes care of it and renders it for
us as humans.
This is what the computer sees just HMO success in javascript.
To summarize all of that when I go to a URL and I hit enter first thing that happens is we need to find
the IP address for that domain and then we send an HTP request asking for a particular page to that
IP address and then the server receives that request.
It figures out what to do what to respond with.
And then it responds back with H.M. SS in javascript.
The next thing I want to discuss is the difference between static and dynamic web pages.
We talked about this also in one of the early videos about how the Internet works.
I want to do a quick recap because it's important to the back end discussion that we're about to have
.
So there are two different types of Web sites static pages and dynamic pages dynamic web pages are sites
that are compiled on the server side where the server is pulling together or constructing a web page
before it's sent back as a response.
Everything we've written so far has been static.
So even something like this that it doesn't seem like it's static because there's dynamic content.
We get random colors every time and it's a game.
It doesn't seem as static as the restaurant Web page example that I used on the earlier video on this
topic but it still is static because it's the same HMO C Ss in javascript.
Every single time.
Yes it looks different because we have some random colors but it's the same fundamental pieces every
time that we're opening in the browser on a dynamic web site.
We could have different javascript or different C Ss different each team that's being sent back every
time.
So when we go to something like Reddit for instance and I refresh the page I can get different content
here.
And in fact I do every single time you're fresh the page you get new content and so there's a database
that's compiling things.
There's some codes checking if you're logged in and if you are logged in then it won't show you a form
over here but it will show you a log out button.
And if you're not logged in it shows you a form and it shows you log in or sign up buttons.
So this web page is not the exact same H G M L C Ss in javascript that sent back to me every time the
server is actually deciding what to send back.
In constructing a web page before it sends it to me versus this site it's the same exact content every
single time.
OK so let's focus a little bit more on the back end now.
So this diagram is of a generic stack and stack is a term that's used to refer to all of the technologies
that a particular web application uses.
So H.T. Melchior says in javascript are always are almost always part of a stack nowadays on big fancy
web apps.
Technically we could have a Web site that doesn't have any success.
It would just be hideous.
We could have a Web site that doesn't have any client side javascript as well and it just wouldn't be
very interactive.
But we can still make a perfectly good Web site like we did with the original photography portfolio
site just each team Eliseus us but most web apps as I mentioned all have HDMI elsea says and Javascript
that's being sent back on the backend is where we see a lot more variants.
So there are different languages that we can write server side code and we can write or back and using
Ruby or Python or Skala or Java or javascript or THP.
There are so many choices there.
There are all sorts of different databases out there.
Post post-crisis and sequel it in my as well and Mongo and there's so many choices.
So the term stack refers to what particular choices the developers made and what exact technologies
that they use.
It's a very common question for developers to ask one another.
What's your stack at that company or what stack are you using on this specific project.
So here's a real life example of Reddit stack.
So these are some of the technologies that Reddit uses on its website.
So the site is written in Python using a framework called flask.
It's built on an engine X server and it uses postscripts as its database.
There's actually a Web site devoted to sharing different companies stacks called Stack share.
So I have it open here and this is the Reddit page on texture and we can see all the different technologies
they use.
And genetics Python post gresse Amazon S3.
And it tells you below a little bit about what they're used for.
Don't be overwhelmed by how many icons there are.
How many names and all these different categories and all these different terms.
That's not the focus here.
All I want to show you is that different Web sites use different technologies.
So let's click on stacks and we can take a look at some other company stacks.
For instance air B and B can see that FBN B uses rails and Ruby that use my Esky well lot to javascript
Java.
They use a whole bunch of different technologies.
So let's go back to our slides here.
Another thing I want to bring up is that this blue line right here denotes the boundary between back
end and front end.
So we discussed how a dynamic site is constructed by a server on the backend.
So this right here this part of the diagram is where the dynamic part of the site comes in.
So this is all the logic written in Python in red it's case that figures out if a user is logged in
if we need to show a form what add to add into the page what images to put in if we need to have a sign
up and lock in button or a sign out button.
All of that is done in the back and in this part of the diagram and then it sends back h tim L C S S
and Javascript.
So here's the stack that we're going to be learning.
We're going to use node j.
Yes.
So we'll still be writing javascript but we're going to be writing it on the backend.
We're going to use a framework called Express and we're also going to use Mangu DBI as our database
.
And then of course we'll also have h t m l c s s and Javascript just like we've been using in the last
few units.
So right now at this point in the course you can consider yourself a front end developer or a front
end developer in training where we've covered everything you need to know to start making the front
end of web sites.
Now we're going to start talking about back in web development and once we bring those two together
towards the end of the course wherever writing server side code with Express A.J. as Mongo D-B we have
user log in but we're also writing client side or front end javascript.
H Tim L and C Ss.
That's what we would call full stack web development.
The term full stack web development refers to writing code on all parts of the stack the back end and
the front end.
Here's a diagram of some of the functionality that we can implement on the basket.
And this is using Reddit as an example again you can see we have features like check if the user is
logged in sign up a user add a new post to the database create a new comment remove a post from the
database sort and rank the posts create a new sub Reddit add a subscriber to the newsletter and save
that in the database.
And the most important one of course is figure out what each team will see assess in javascript to send
back to the user which is then sent back.
Crossing this blue line where we're now going to the front end that H.M.S. assassins and Javascript
is sent back to me and then I see this in my browser.
I have one more diagram here that also talks about front end versus back end but it's formatted slightly
differently.
This diagram the sequence of events between front end and back and over the course of a few page loads
.
So on the front end if I go to read it dot com and refresh.
I'm sending a request for the Reddit homepage and then that goes to read it.
That request makes it to their server and the server sees that I'm asking for the home page.
So there's some server side logic that grabs the top post from the database and makes all the time LNC
SS and javascript that I see here and then sends that back to me which I then view in my browser.
The next step is that I could type something into a search box like dogs which I'll do right now type
dogs here and hit enter.
And when I hit enter a new request is sent back to Reddit server this time saying that I'm searching
for dogs.
So the server has some logic that takes my search term dogs and it finds all the posts that match that
term in the database and then it makes me some new age male assess in javascript for the dog's results
page and then it sends that back to me.
And then my browser renders it and I see this that's a very very simplified version obviously.
There's a lot more happening behind the scenes and Reddit will actually be creating our own version
of an application very similar to read it.
Once we learn more about Express and know J.S. and Mongo DB And we'll be making a full stack application
.